https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/ACM-31308 2.16 part 2 and 3 partially (#8887)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: observability/obs_add_uw_metrics.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[#add-uw-metrics]
= Adding user workload metrics

[role="_abstract"]

> Add user workload metrics to be collected from your managed clusters by configuring a config map with the name `observability-metrics-custom-allowlist` in the namespace where you want to capture the user workload metrics.

Author: Adding the same change that I made when making improvements in my PR for 2.17
```suggestion
To collect custom workload metrics from managed clusters, create  `ConfigMap` resource named `observability-metrics-custom-allowlist` in a namespace.

After creating the `ConfigMap` resource, the observability collector collects and pushes the metrics from the target namespace to the hub cluster.
```

> Add user workload metrics to be collected from your managed clusters by configuring a config map with the name `observability-metrics-custom-allowlist` in the namespace where you want to capture the user workload metrics.

Author: Adding the same change that I made when making improvements in my PR for 2.17
```suggestion
To collect custom workload metrics from managed clusters, create  `ConfigMap` resource named `observability-metrics-custom-allowlist` in a namespace.

After creating the `ConfigMap` resource, the observability collector collects and pushes the metrics from the target namespace to the hub cluster.
```

.Procedure

. Set the configuration on the managed cluster in namespace where you want to capture the user workload metrics. The name must be `observability-metrics-custom-allowlist`.

. The following example monitors the User workload metric `sample_metrics` from the namespace `monitored_namespace`. If you create the configuration in the `open-cluster-management-addon-observability` namespace instead, the metrics are collected from all the namespaces of the managed cluster. See the following example:

+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: observability-metrics-custom-allowlist
  namespace: <monitored_namespace>
data:
  uwl_metrics_list.yaml:
    names:
      - <sample_metrics>
----

> * Add the namespace where you want to capture the metric.

Author: ```suggestion
```
